Math app Next features

The daily notes input
Everyday I study math for one hour, during this hour I am mostly studying Manifolds using Tu’s book. An interesting feature I would love to have is to be able to voice log a session summary, if it makes sense to take pictures of my own notebook notes. Upload this information to the math-app. This information becomes a rich amount of massive data with days, if lets say I make a voice note of 1 minute per day, and a picture per day, one can imagine how that compounds in terms of natural language content and images. From there, one can do many things. The obvious thing is to tag / classify those notes and make them searchable and addressable. The less obvious part is to build a map, on how they connect between each other, entity relationship style. The more advanced feature would to be build a memory of myself, and let agents use it when generating questions, generating conversations, and whatever gets onboarded to the platform.

The math topics knowledge base
Another interesting use of AI as a learning support for math, is to have a huge graph or tree or call if knowledge base of a specific mathematical topic. Obviously the hard part is get the source of data, but this is out of scope for the description of the feature. We assume we have something like that. We can then say search it, via words, or an agentic semantic driven search, etc. and display say part of the graphs matching the search. We can then either click on a Node and use it as a reference data enrichment, either for generating questions, driving conversations or contextualizing the notes.

The math learning workflow
Here we imagine a sort of workflow, much like one learns a Coursera through a staged progress manner, we can imagine a staged learning path. This could show in the UI as a journey more or less of say a specific topic for learning, take manifolds again. One can assume the actual natural path of learning a new concept in math, first it goes through discovery, where one is exposed the first time to a topic, here a learner usually need to be hooked via curiosity, strong examples, familiar language, imagine this is a stage, and imagine having behind this stage a specific agent with specific tooling. The second part of learning is usually about starting to formalizing the language, by stating the vocabulary, the definitions, small given examples, maybe a certain geometrical or logical intuition behind the concepts, one can imagine this as a phase with an agent behind it, and third you have the theorems and the actual results of the theory etc… and finally say applications and how the theory maps other categories in math. Obviously for this to work, it’s not enough to have just a program wrapping an LLM with prompts, it would be ridiculous. You definitely need a knowledge base that can be referenced, think RAG of main books, main theorems, lean math-lib, whatever. You also need live learning feed from the user, aka the daily notes input. And a usage of the actual math learning workflow wrapping on itself to close the loop. User goes into a stage, interact with the agent, asks questions, solves a problem, uploads a LateX file, a lean file or a picture of a notebook… The goal is to engage the user on a continuous journey where he can start learning threads, return to them, see his history etc.
Math connected topics discovery
This is obvious and easy and can be done using chat gpt, but its worth noting that chat gpt doesn’t have access to your notes and daily input. This is a bit like a netflix recommendation engine, it see what you do, what you ask, what learn and proposes to you in the background, related topics, a next book option, or applications of the actual theory, maybe draw a small graph of the next related topics, it could also go into your notes, identify a specific theorem and browser from there into child ideas.

Live conversation room
This is more like a fun idea, once can imagine a conference or a discussion where you go live on call with 3-4 agents acting each as a specialist in a field, maybe use something like the eleven labs api to make it more realistic and participate yourself in a mathematical discussion, where you act as a moderator for instance, asking questions, driving the conversation and obtain live on the call transcripts but also sometimes figures and equations generated in the background

The knock the peanut feature
We all have times where a specific mathematical concept sounds completely foreign, alien and understandable, of course it has something that you could theoretically understand but are having issues with, it happens to all of us. (we are not talking something above your level you can’t understand). Here we can imagine a deep and high efforts ai workflow, where there is a long deep session with the user to help him really understand the thing, that might require a sophisticated iterative chain of calls, direct access to resources, multiple agents trying to help at the same time and access to the user’s notes and understandings to identify certain gaps leading to the issue. Here the difference is in the level of llm tokens we are allowed to use.. Its a nice feature but hard to test its efficiency in reality.

The gaps finder
Directly inspired from the one above, again having access to the user’s notes and opinions, one might also write a prompt to extract gaps in understanding, common misconceptions, surface them to the user.
